Dear Teacher, I
respectfully ask you a question. During
meditation, you gave me a
meditation cushion to focus on the Bodhi Mind. The Bodhi Mind is placed
on top of the Buddha's teachings, and the mind follows the path of compassion.
Before,
I only knew meditation as mindfulness of breathing,
or counting breaths. While counting breaths, I
often let out
thoughts. Today, I tried it, and I
don't know if it's right or wrong.
But first, I focused on observing the
negative experiences I've had in the past two days. I just
followed that for a while. I do
n't know if this
is
mindfulness when I concentrate on observing and
focusing on actions like that. I do
n't know if
that's true meditation or
if I'm just daydreaming. Regarding
the part where I
sat this afternoon, I
focused on my breath and actions from the
other day.  The day after tomorrow, it's completely wrong,
completely wrong, there's a path of enlightenment, remember this,
we practice must focus on the right subject. If we see a
practitioner who isn't attached to the Dharma, then it will be the right
subject, there's a seat for the fellow practitioner. Of course, when
sitting in meditation, it's always breathing,
right? But we direct our mind towards
meditation, the meditation of wisdom. That is, we think, we think, that
when this coldness is gone, we start thinking, without
any thoughts, we sit silently to
observe the breath for a while,
then we focus on something, we focus on thinking about the
paths of enlightenment like this. The Buddha
in the morning, on ordinary days, is a day of
meditation, then from within meditation, he rises to
observe humanity, to see where there are sentient beings, where there
is a karmic connection, when the time is right to save them,
then he goes to save them.
Yes, that's it, is it clearly understood? And what about
us?
We find sentient beings in our own minds,
which ones are difficult to save, then we save them, or
not, we put a fan outside. We search for sentient beings in a
box for a while. We search for sentient beings in
our own minds, which ones are ready to save, that is,
we contemplate according to the subject of the kitchen, there's a path of
enlightenment, is it clear here? Our subject of contemplation
is how to help them  We return to
eliminating unwholesome thoughts
to maintain the Dharma of the root of the Buddha's teachings,
praying for the Buddha's Dharma
to endure and
benefit all sentient beings. After contemplating that one thought,
we return to the
unwholesome thought, and two delusive thoughts arise. We then shoot
them down with
something,
with our focused thinking on the chosen object. Have you
understood this point? Continue this process
until the end of your session. That's what you need to
know, dear fellow
practitioners. Above is the point: when practicing, you
must practice according to the chosen object. You
only truly sit when you are seated. In
reality, to allow time for guidance
on the chosen object, you must have
time for practice because during the process,
many thoughts arise, causing fatigue and
boredom. Your karma gives rise to
delusive thoughts and unwholesome thoughts. Some
people just think for a while,
and then suddenly these thoughts appear.
According to the Dharma, they are quickly eliminated, and the information is instantly released.
Karma
doesn't just appear as you wish,
right? (Just saying)  Here's the thing:
two people love each other very much, they live
together very much, but at some point
things don't go as planned. Do you want to meticulously resolve this, or will you just let it all go to waste? Well,
when you're very tired, you naturally
start contemplating, and then a thought arises: how to
quickly eliminate the Dharma (the practice/spiritual influence). That's when
you catch the thief, and you
clearly identify him. That's how you catch the thief, right? You
catch the thief! Then you
eliminate him by continuing to contemplate and
develop that Dharma. So it takes a long time, a long time, a long time, a long time, and a long time before
it's worth it.
The thief has a path, my friend. Honestly,
imagine we practice and
then we become lazy, and things get worse. Oh my god, we keep contemplating like that,
a hundred times, we keep contemplating like that, but
it's not like that, my friend. Just keep contemplating, keep contemplating, keep going, and
it appears in the mind, the
great evidence is clear. This place isn't
visible yet, but it needs time, the
impurities, the prison, that's how it is, my friends.
If you don't practice, you don't have real experience.
A person who doesn't practice the Dharma
has no experience.  Without
experience, you can't lead a gathering of fellow
practitioners.
When dissatisfaction arises,
it doesn't originate from the mind or the
Dharma, but from one's own experience.
What kind of experience is it?
When the body is tired, then the mind becomes
unwholesome. It's due to the miraculous nature of the seat of
benefiting sentient beings. Because we have sustained
our physical bodies through many lifetimes by killing sentient beings,
now from
this physical body, countless
unwholesome thoughts will arise. If we want to eliminate the karma that
has killed sentient beings, we must
meditate and practice contemplation to eliminate
those remaining thoughts. Once we eliminate them all, we can experiment with
them. The meaning is clear here, sister.
So, saving sentient beings or turning sentient
beings around is the meditative mind
and pre-contemplation, fellow practitioners.
Give it to the two gentlemen. The
next time you tell them to go to the forest, don't be lazy.
You said no, but Ms. Yen said to go to the forest. The
weather forecast says it's going to be very cold, it
seems like today there are 6 teams, four
degrees or something. If you've registered, then call.
Hello, I'm busy and can't go. It's
too cold, I have to wear a blanket. I
can't go, and then you're going to be a monk again. Then how can I
generate electricity for that pot, right? Oh, yes, yes.
[Applause]
Yes, yes, yes,
yes.